CARDS-2723: Create an endpoint to dump data processors and filters (#2034)
ccmbioinfo/lfs: modules/utils/Serialization Readme.md

- `INVALID` - the Form has at least one Answer with an invalid value (for example, value 5 for a Question that expects values between 0 and 4). The causative Answer entries and all of their parent items all the way to the Form will also have the `INVALID` status flag
- `DRAFT` - the form is INCOMPLETE, INVALID, or both. DRAFT is not applied to the Answers and Answer Sections.
- `SUBMITTED` - a form associated with a Visit subject containing answers to a survey questionnaire that has been submitted via the patient portal. Unless the data has been submitted, it can not be considered for statistics as the patient did not "sign off" on their answers.

## Running exports
To run an export, navigate to a URL in the following format:
`<base url>/Path/To/Exported/Data.<Any processors>.dataFilter:<Any filters>.<extension>`.

### Export formats
Multiple different export formats are supported. These include:
- **.csv** and **.tsv**: This format includes additional processing options to help match data into a row/column format. These options are explained in the CSV Adapter Options section below, alongside the standard Processor and Filter options.

> - **.json**: This format most closely matches the way that data is stored internally.

Reviewer: I would put JSON first.

```suggestion
- **.json**: This format most closely matches the way that data is stored internally. It is also highly customizable, from very verbose to the bare minimum.
- **.csv** and **.tsv**: This format includes additional processing options to help match data into a row/column format. These options are explained in the CSV Adapter Options section below, alongside the standard Processor and Filter options.
```

- **.txt**: minimalistic human-readable serialization, suitable for copy/pasting in a note

> - **.md**: suitable for printing or archiving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **.md**: Markdown-formatted version of the text format, suitable for printing or archiving
```

### Notable export paths:
- `/Questionnaires/<QuestionnaireId>.json` exports the Questionnaire metadata definition
- `/Questionnaires/<QuestionnaireId>.deep.json` exports the full Questionnaire definition, including questions and sections
- `/Questionnaires/<QuestionnaireId>.data.json` exports the forms containing answers to the specified Questionnaire. Filters and processors can be added, as shown in the examples above.
- `/Subjects/<MRN>/<Encounter ID>.data.deep.json` exports a visit and all its associated forms. Filters and processors can be added, as shown in the examples above.

> - `/Forms/<Form ID>.deep.json` exports a Form with all its answers. Filters and processors can be added, as shown in the examples above.

Reviewer: Now the examples are below, not above.

```suggestion
- `/Questionnaires/<QuestionnaireId>.data.json` exports the forms containing answers to the specified Questionnaire. Filters and processors can be added, as shown in the examples below.
- `/Subjects/<MRN>/<Encounter ID>.data.deep.json` exports a visit and all its associated forms. Filters and processors can be added, as shown in the examples below.
- `/Forms/<Form ID>.deep.json` exports a Form with all its answers. Filters and processors can be added, as shown in the examples below.
```

- `/Forms/<Form ID>.md` exports a Markdown-formatted view of a Form. Use `.txt` to export plain text instead.

#### Example: Weekly OAIP Form Export

> `/Questionnaires/OAIP.data.dataFilter:modifiedAfter=2025-07-19T02:00:00%5C.000-05:00.dataFilter:modifiedBefore=2025-07-26T02:00:00%5C.000-05:00.labels.formToSurveyLinks.dataFilter:status=SUBMITTED.csvIncludeFields:@survey=Survey.csvHeader:raw.questionnaireFilter:exclude=%252FQuestionnaires%252FOAIP%252Foaip_module1%252Foaip_visit_month.csv`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/Questionnaires/OAIP.data.dataFilter:modifiedAfter=2025-07-19T02:00:00%5C.000-05:00.dataFilter:modifiedBefore=2025-07-26T02:00:00%5C.000-05:00.dataFilter:status=SUBMITTED.labels.formToSurveyLinks.csvIncludeFields:@survey=Survey.csvHeader:raw.questionnaireFilter:exclude=%252FQuestionnaires%252FOAIP%252Foaip_module1%252Foaip_visit_month.csv`
```

- `/Questionnaires/OAIP`: Export the OAIP questionnaire
- `.data`: Include the forms that answer this questionnaire

> - `.dataFilter:modifiedAfter=2025-07-19T02:00:00%5C.000-05:00`: Files modified after 2 AM on July 19th, UTC -5. Do note that the `\` from a standard time stamp has been URL encoded to `%5C`. The shorter format `2025-07-19` is also supported, and interpreted as Midnight (time `T00:00:00.000`) in the server's timezone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.dataFilter:modifiedAfter=2025-07-19T02:00:00%5C.000-05:00`: Files modified after 2 AM on July 19th, UTC -5. Since the dot is used to separate the selectors, it must be escaped with `\`, which needs to be URL-encoded as `%5C`. The shorter format `2025-07-19` is also supported, and interpreted as Midnight (time `T00:00:00.000`) in the server's timezone.
```

- `.dataFilter:modifiedBefore=2025-07-26T02:00:00%5C.000-05:00`: Files modified before 2 AM on July 26th, UTC -5

> - `.labels`: Include the human readable version of answers, instead of the raw data (eg. `Never` instead of `0`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.labels`: Use the human readable version of answers, instead of the raw data (eg. `Never` instead of `0`)
```

- `.formToSurveyLinks`: Include the path to the relevant Survey Events form in the form data. This adds an `@survey` property, which is included in the export later

> - `.dataFilter:status=SUBMITTED`: Only include forms with the `SUBMITTED` status flag

Reviewer: Let's put the data filters together, and the survey related selectors together.
```suggestion
- `.dataFilter:status=SUBMITTED`: Only include forms with the `SUBMITTED` status flag
- `.labels`: Include the human readable version of answers, instead of the raw data (eg. `Never` instead of `0`)
- `.formToSurveyLinks`: Include the path to the relevant Survey Events form in the form data. This adds an `@survey` property, which is included in the export using the next line
```

> - `.csvIncludeFields:@survey=Survey`: Special instruction for the csv output format. Include the `@survey` property in the output column with the label `Survey`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.csvIncludeFields:@survey=Survey`: Special instruction for the csv output format. Include the `@survey` property in a column with the label `Survey`
```

- `.csvHeader:raw`: Special instruction for the csv output format. Include the raw property names as a header in addition to the (default) labels
- `.questionnaireFilter:exclude=%252FQuestionnaires%252FOAIP%252Foaip_module1%252Foaip_visit_month`: Do not include the question `oaip_visit_month` or it's answers. The path to this question has been URL  encoded twice from `/Questionnaires/OAIP/oaip_module1/oaip_visit_month`, first to replace the `/` with `%2F` and second to replace `%` with `%25`
- `.csv`: Export the data as a csv file.

#### Example: Weekly Survey Event Form Export
`/Questionnaires/Survey events.data.dataFilter:modifiedAfter=2025-07-19T02:00:00%5C.000-05:00.dataFilter:modifiedBefore=2025-07-26T02:00:00%5C.000-05:00.dataFilter:statusNot=INCOMPLETE.labels.csv`

#### Example: Exporting all the data for a Visit as JSON
`/Subjects/<MRN>/<Encounter ID>.data.deep.json`

> #### Example: Exporting a Patient and all the forms, from all their visits, that have been modified since the specified date

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: Exporting a Patient and all the forms, from all their visits, that have been modified since the specified date, in a more compact JSON (`.bare`)
```

`/Subjects/<MRN>.deep.data.dataFilter:modifiedAfter=2025-07-19.dataOption:descendantData=true.dataOption:formSelectors=deep%5C.bare.json`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.deep`: Include the Patient subject descendants, i.e. the visits
- `.data`: Include the forms for these subjects
- `dataFilter:modifiedAfter=2025-07-19`: Only include forms modified after the given date
- `.dataOption:descendantData=true`: Also include forms for the descendant subjects
- `dataOption:formSelectors=deep%5C.bare`: Apply a different set of selectors for serializing the forms. The separator dots must be escaped in order to not be considered as separators between the outer list of selectors.

```

#### Example: Exports a Form with all its answers in a simplified form, with almost no metadata
`/Forms/<Form ID>.deep.bare.-identify.-dereference.nolinks.-answerCopy.json`

#### Notes on processors and filters:
- Processors and filters that expect a date to be provided can accept that date in a variety of formats. For example,
    - `2025-01-01T02:00:00%5C.000-05:00`: A fully specified date, including date (Jan. 1), time (02:00:00), millisecond (.000), and timezone (-05:00)
    - `2025-01-01T02:00`: A simplified datetime, interpretted using the server's timezone

>     - `2025-01-01`: A date, interpretted as midnight on that day in the server's timezone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `2025-01-01T02:00`: A simplified datetime, interpreted using the server's timezone
    - `2025-01-01`: A date, interpreted as midnight on that day in the server's timezone
```

**isEnabledByDefault**: true
### answerFilter:
**Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.
Include or exclude answers or answer sections based on the question or section they refer to.
If only `include` options are provided, only those items and any descendants will be included
If only `exclude` options are provided, all other items will be included.
If both `include` and `exclude` options are provided, then for an item to be included it must be a listed as an `include` item or descendent thereof and also not be listed as or a descendant of an `exclude` node.
It is not possible to include a descendant of an excluded item
#### Options:
**include**: A path to an included question or section. `answerFilter:include=/Questionnaires/Path/To/Question`
**exclude**: A path to an excluded question or section. `answerFilter:exclude=/Questionnaires/Path/To/Question`
### bare:
#### Implementations:
- **Description**: Simplify serialization for all resource types by removing all technical properties, renaming `jcr:created` to `created` and storing file attachments in a `content` property.
- **Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.

> Simplify form serialization by only including the subject name, questionnaire and each sectionand question. Designed for use with `deep`, `-dereference` and `-identify`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simplify form serialization by only including the subject name, questionnaire and each section and question. Designed for use with `deep`, `-dereference` and `-identify`
```

- **Description**: Only runs on `Subjects`.

> Simplify subject serialization by only including simple labels for the name, type and parents of asubject. Should be used with `-dereference` and `-identify`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simplify subject serialization by only including simple labels for the name, type and parents of a subject. Should be used with `-dereference` and `-identify`
```

### data:
**Description**: Serialize the forms associated with a Questionnaire or Subject
### deep:
**Description**: Enable deep serialization, i.e. including the serialization of all descendant items. For example, serializing a Form without `deep` would only output the form's properties. With `deep`, all the answers are included, organized by sections.
### dereference:
**Description**: Dereference properties of type `REFERENCE`, `WEAKREFERENCE` and `PATH`: Instead of printing the internal UUID, serialize the referenced node.

> **isEnabledByDefault**: true

Reviewer: I would make this simpler:

```suggestion
**Enabled by default**
```

### excludeDefaultProperties:
**Description**: Exclude properties if their value is the default value or an obvious non-value:

>  - If a property's' value matches its JCR-defined default value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - If a property's value matches its defined default value
```

 - If it's a `false` boolean
 - If it's an empty string ''
### excludeFiles:
**Description**: Exclude the contents of uploaded files from the serialization. By default, all uploaded files are excluded
**isEnabledByDefault**: true
#### Options:

> **exclude**: If this option is included, only exclude the specified file. `.excludeFiles:exclude=/Questionnaires/Path/To/QuestionWithFileAnswer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**exclude**: If this option is specified, only exclude the specified files. Use it multiple times to exclude more than one file. `.excludeFiles:exclude=/Questionnaires/Path/To/QuestionWithFileAnswer`
```

### flatten:
**Description**: Flatten a form so all answers, regardless of sections and subsections, are listed in the top level of the json. This processor is incompatible with the `bare` processor
### formToSurveyLinks:
**Description**: If a form has a `belongsToSurvey` link, include the name of the linked form in the root of the linking form's serialization JSON.
### identify:
**Description**: Identify a node by including its `@path` and `@name` properties.
**isEnabledByDefault**: true
### importable:

> **Description**: Remove any properties from the output that would not be present in an importable questionnaire XML.This processor is intended to be run alongside the `deep` and `-identify` processor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Description**: Export a file that is suitable for using as a source file to be imported, removing any properties that are tied to a running instance, such as unique ID and version control. This processor is intended to be run alongside the `deep` and `-identify` processor
```

### instanceCount:

> **Description**: Only runs on `Subjects`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Description**: Only runs on `SubjectTypes`.
```

Include the number of subjects of that type in the subject type serialization.
### labels:
#### Implementations:
- **Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.
Add the human readable version of an answer to its serialization in the `displayedValue` property
**isEnabledByDefault**: true
- **Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.
Add the human readable version of an answer to its serialization in the `displayedValue` property
**isEnabledByDefault**: true
- **Description**: Runs on Forms and Questionnaires.
Adds a label to answer option nodes.
**isEnabledByDefault**: true
- **Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.

> Add the human readable version of an answer to its serialization in the `displayedValue` propertyGet the human readable answer for text and number questions with options by outputting the answer option's label instead of the stored value.

Reviewer: Missing separator in this and the following lines, `propertyGet`.

**isEnabledByDefault**: true
- **Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.
Add the human readable version of an answer to its serialization in the `displayedValue` propertyGet pedigree question answers as an svg picture.
**isEnabledByDefault**: true
- **Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.
Add the human readable version of an answer to its serialization in the `displayedValue` propertyGet the human readable answer for file questions by outputting the file name instead of the path.
**isEnabledByDefault**: true
- **Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.

> Add the human readable version of an answer to its serialization in the `displayedValue` propertyGet the human readable answer for file questions by outputting the file name instead of the path.

Reviewer: Why is this description present twice?

**isEnabledByDefault**: true
- **Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.
Add the human readable version of an answer to its serialization in the `displayedValue` propertyGet the human readable answer for number questions.
**isEnabledByDefault**: true
- **Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.
Add the human readable version of an answer to its serialization in the `displayedValue` propertyGet the human readable answer for date questions. The human readable version is the date formatted with the date format configured in the date question definition, for example `01/07/2025` instead of the stored value `2025-01-07T00:00:00%5C.000-05:00`.
**isEnabledByDefault**: true
- **Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.
Add the human readable version of an answer to its serialization in the `displayedValue` propertyGet the human readable answer for boolean questions by outputting the labels specified in the question definition, e.g. 'Yes' or 'True' instead of '1'.
**isEnabledByDefault**: true
- **Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.

> Add the human readable version of an answer to its serialization in the `displayedValue` propertyGet the human readable answer for text and number questions with options by outputting the answer option's label instead of the stored value.

Reviewer: Reading through all of these, I think we should remove the first part and only mention the specific thing each of them does:

```suggestion
Get the human readable answer for text and number questions with options by outputting the answer option's label instead of the stored value.
```

**isEnabledByDefault**: true
### links:
**Description**: Simplify the serialization of links to other resources (such as other forms) to only include the link type and path to the linked resource.
**isEnabledByDefault**: true
### nolinks:
**Description**: Exclude the links to other resources from serialization.
### properties:
**Description**: Serialize node properties.
**isEnabledByDefault**: true
### questionnaireFilter:
**Description**: Only runs on `Questionnaires`.
Include or exclude questions or sections.
If only `include` options are provided, only those items and any descendants will be included
If only `exclude` options are provided, all other items will be included.
If both `include` and `exclude` options are provided, then for an item to be included it must be a listed as an `include` item or descendent thereof and also not be listed as or a descendant of an `exclude` item.
It is not possible to include a descendant of an excluded item
#### Options:
**include**: A path to an included question or section. `answerFilter:include=/Questionnaires/Path/To/Question`

> **exclude**: A path to an excluded question or section. `answerFilter:exclude=/Questionnaires/Path/To/Question`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**include**: A path to an included question or section. `questionnaireFilter:include=/Questionnaires/Path/To/Question`
**exclude**: A path to an excluded question or section. `questionnaireFilter:exclude=/Questionnaires/Path/To/Question`
```

### referenced:
**Description**: Report if a resource is referenced by adding a `@referenced=true|false` property
### simple:
#### Implementations:
- **Description**: Simplify serialization for all resource types by removing unnecessary properties.
Remove the `form` property and all `sling:` and `jcr:` properties
- **Description**: Only runs on `Questionnaires`.
Simplify questionnaire serialization by removing child jcr properties.
- **Description**: Only runs on `Forms`.

> Simplify form serialization by removing unnecessary properties and children.Removes child jcr properties, removes extra properties from answers and cleans up subject types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simplify form serialization by removing unnecessary properties and children. Removes child jcr properties, removes extra properties from answers and cleans up subject types
```

- **Description**: Only runs on `Subjects`.
Simplify form serialization by removing the jcr properties.

## Filters:
### clinic:

> **Description**: Only show forms that belong to a user that has a 'Visit information' form for the specified clinic. If included multiple times, this includes forms belonging to any of the specified clinics.

Reviewer: I think all the filters should have an example.

```suggestion
**Description**: Only show forms that belong to a user that has a 'Visit information' form for the specified clinic. If included multiple times, this includes forms belonging to any of the specified clinics. e.g. `.clinic=PMH-YVM`
```

### clinicNot:
**Description**: Exclude forms that belong to a user that has a 'Visit information' form for the specified clinic. If included multiple times, this excludes forms belonging to any of the specified clinics.
### createdAfter:

> **Description**: Only show results that were created after the requested datetime. e.g. `.dataFilter:createdAfter=2025-01-01T06:00:00%5C.000-05:00` for forms created after January 1, 2025 at 6 AM in the time zone UTC-5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Description**: Only show results that were created on or after the requested datetime. e.g. `.dataFilter:createdAfter=2025-01-01T06:00:00%5C.000-05:00` for forms created after January 1, 2025 at 6 AM in the time zone UTC-5
```

### createdBefore:
**Description**: Only show results that were created before the requested datetime. e.g. `.dataFilter:createdBefore=2025-01-01T06:00:00%5C.000-05:00` for forms created before January 1, 2025 at 6 AM in the time zone UTC-5
### createdBy:

> **Description**: Only show results that were created by the specified user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Description**: Only show results that were created by the specified user. e.g. `.createdBy=admin`
```

### modifiedAfter:
**Description**: Only show results that were modified after the requested datetime. e.g. `.dataFilter:modifiedAfter=2025-01-01T06:00:00%5C.000-05:00` for forms modified after January 1, 2025 at 6 AM in the time zone UTC-5
### modifiedBefore:
**Description**: Only show results that were modified before the requested datetime. e.g. `.dataFilter:modifiedBefore=2025-01-01T06:00:00%5C.000-05:00` for forms modified before January 1, 2025 at 6 AM in the time zone UTC-5
### modifiedBy:
**Description**: Only show results that were last modified by the specified user.
### notCreatedBy:
**Description**: Only show results that were created by any user other than the specified user.
### notModifiedBy:
**Description**: Only show results that were last modified by anby other other than the specified user.
### status:

> **Description**: Only show results that have the specified status flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Description**: Only show results that have the specified status flag. e.g. `.status=SUBMITTED`
```

### statusNot:

> **Description**: Only show results that do not have the specified status flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Description**: Only show results that do not have the specified status flag. e.g. `statusNot=INCOMPLETE`
```
